Hello and welcome back and as you can see I have even for loaded up and today's lecture is nothing too
hard.
We're going to be taking a look around the job and getting familiar with it.
So you are not afraid about it so we're not stressed when using it.
It's very simple and very user friendly tool.
First things first you can see that the server has many in it.
We have to ask you well in it.
We have already two databases because we already upload the data for consumer complaints.
So if we click here we can see a bunch of different cascade looks and then triggers extensions for that
reference.
No worry about that in 90 percent of data management cases you will never even look in here.
Then you have schemas and here you have public schemas right now.
These elements come to play sometimes but still the amount of time you will actually have to use them
is very rare.
And don't worry about it at all just the most important thing here is the table element.
All you care about is that it has some data in that.
And that's achieved through opening the columns section and inside.
Here we can see that we have 18 columns.
Now if we want to see what's inside these columns we have to go open up a query tool and this one is
really opened up.
The one that we've completed just now we have select all from consumer complaints and it put us all
the data out so we can straighten this around to make sure it fits on our screen to make sure that we
can read everything.
It's pretty easy pretty convenient.
Explain.
So if you click on the lightning I can write or press Phyfe it will run the query but if you click here
and press F 7 or shift of 7 you can explain and what explain that is it tells you basically when you
have a lot of different tables it will show you an image of where it's combining the data from and how
these tables are connected.
So if you're getting the wrong data or you're getting enough of it you can take a look here and then
the sound like maybe you forget to tie one table to another.
So as Joel does not recognize the connection between them and it just can't display anything to you.
Messages will basically tell you what just happened with your query and history.
You can see we open it up here you can see that it does it shows us what we run.
What grows at the fact that how much time at the end and if you get any errors it will be in the message
type here.
So again let's go back to data output here.
It gives us this weird thing and thus we stretch it out here it already gives not such a weird thing.
Basically what it does it shows us the explain.
But in the query language so if we go back to execute it we'll have the correct data.
I could hear people inside of this menu what you can do is you can open inquiry or you can save this.
So if you want to save the square you would just click Save select where we want and save it up.
This might be useful when you're working with Biribi queries or the queries that you use a lot and you
don't type and over and over and over again.
So you just want to right click mode up and you query and then just open a query that's saved from your
computer and run it straight through.
Also there is just delete.
Copy all the usual stuff you'll see on any other programming language.
Daughter thing is that if you don't want to click here to create a new query you can always go to tools
and click it here.
So that basically doesn't the same.
Now if we go here to databases you will notice that if you right click on different elements it will
give you different options.
For example if you click on columns This is everything you get.
And if you right click on those tables you'll get a lot more.
You'll get the Grand Wizard all ready.
So the difference between is that there are several there are rules inside as you well that you can
grant access to different tables.
You can drop different databases on grouping under databases or you can drop databases while grouping
schemas and so on and so on.
So with time you will learn all of them if you need to.
Again with my experience when it comes to the job and comes to grad school most of the time you will
still be working inside of the command line.
So all of the actions you can do here by right clicking it for me it's easier quicker and just more
fun to write it all out because I know that where I made mistakes and I feel good when a write a huge
Querrey it runs and it successfully runs.
So again don't be afraid of anything here.
The dashboard just shows you how your servers are doing so the stronger your machine the more powerful
your machine is the better.
The stats here propertys just show you what you have in right now.
Ask you well is if we click here it can be displayed for several elements.
Statistics will again show you what we do when we will be working with bigger databases as you can see
it will show you this mistakes.
It will show you as well.
So remember that when we right click here and we press great database Well we could have just wrote
in this query and that would be the same thing.
We could have avoided writing this down because.
And right now for training purposes this is not important.
So this is exactly what I mean that if you just follow the command line and learn all the commands manually
you will never have an issue.
And the thing with all the goys even though they're fun and easy to use a lot of times when they're
updated or when they're rolled back or when they release a new version it's a big deal to learn all
these changes and you need to adjust to the new software whereas if you're working inside the command
line.
So inside your old query here you can write the same queries on any software Duras and you will encounter
no problems.
So in the file we have preferences and you will access that time to time to change some things inside
of your pajamas.
I recently.
It's useful if you for example drag this out and you need to set layout.
Also if you just drag this out I recommend just open a new query.
Close this one.
Don't worry about it and just move on with your life.
It's almost impossible to fix this manually.
Tools again as you can see we have import export maintenance you have restore points you have backups
backups Global's all of those things can be done to databases.
Most of those things can be done only to databases and for now they're not important.
If everything we encounter in this course is important and will be used or encountered in real life
and for all of those things we will show you either the command line equivalent or how you can right
click here to have a bit of a shortcut.
Don't worry about anything.
PGI admin is nothing more than a tool to make your life easier and to make your databases more efficient.
I hope you have a bit more confidence going into the next section where we'll actually be starting to
query our stuff to write all the queries and for the data from the database and I can't wait to see
you there.